>> Todd Gardner: First thing,
we're gonna collapse our dependencies.
So, when we look at this waterfall,
I'm gonna use this simplified
version here in slides, but
we can see the exact same thing in
the Chrome Dev tools in a few minutes.
We see this sort of sequence,
where an HTML file is coming down, and
when the HTML file is down,
there is a stylesheet that gets requested.
And when that stylesheet is done, that
style might reference another stylesheet.
And so the net has to come down.
And then that stylesheet references
something else, like a font, or
a background image, or something like
that, and then that has to come down.
And all of those things have to
be downloaded before FCP happens.
Specifically, the CSS and the fonts.
Why is that?
Because CSS and fonts are render blocking.
If we know about these things,
if the document knows that this CSS file
has to come down, or knows that
this font needs to be referenced,
it's going to block render from
happening until they are complete.
And it's doing that on purpose so
that it doesn't render weird content and
then shift it around as a CSS file gets
done, which would be jarring to the user.
But we do need to know that those things
do block rendering from happening.
So if we have a piece of CSS, or we have
a font that we don't necessarily need yet,
maybe we shouldn't be downloading it.
In our case here,
we have this weird sequence happening,
where we have three things
that we need to get to,
FCP after the document, but
they're loading one after the other.
We're not getting any,
sort of parallel effect.
And the reason is because we have
this little bit of code running,
we're using modern CSS, and
modern CSS supports import statements.
And import lets us say, hey, this CSS file
also uses that other CSS file, go get it.
And if we leave and import in the code
that we actually ship to the user,
well, that's creating a dependency.
It's creating a sequence.
So we have one CSS file that
references another CSS file,
that references another CSS file, and
we've created a sequence in our code.
The other place that this
happens is with fonts.
So here is a CSS file that
references a font from Google Fonts.
In fact, this is the CSS file that you put
into your page when you go to Google fonts
and you say, I want this particular thing,
give me the snippet of code.
This is what's in that snippet of code,
is it's referencing a font to go and
download.
And so,
it's creating this dependency chain
that you need to follow along the way.
And that's the thing we need
to figure out how to remove.
Now, these chains can also happen with
JavaScript, and it can happen with
multiple chains executing at once
that you don't always understand.
So here's an example where a page has
both a JavaScript chain happening and
a CSS chain happening.
It doesn't necessarily tell
us what those chains are, but
you can kind of see them if
you look at these ordering.
If you see that one file is starting
exactly when another one is completed,
you can kind of infer that there's
some relationship between them.
For example, one JavaScript
file requesting another one, or
the logic in one JavaScript file saying,
hey, download that other one, or
this CSS file pointing at this font.
>> Todd Gardner: For example,
if we were to ship a JavaScript module,
say we were to build our
own performance agent, and
we were to pull in In
the web vitals JS library.
Well, even if we host that file locally,
if we ship this code,
as soon as the browser starts running,
it's gonna say, I need to stop here
a second and go get web vitals JS.
And now we've made a serial
request to go off and get it.
This also happens in JavaScript,
if you just do the old
fashioned script injection.
This happened a lot, like, you have
a script, it's like a small loader script,
and what it does is it creates a script
element pointing at some of the scripts,
and sticks it in the page.
This created a sequence,
one JavaScript pointing at another one,
forcing a serial, sequential
thing to happen during the load.
So how do we remove this?
Well, you'll use a bundler of some kind.
Rather than letting the browser execute
these dependency between files at runtime,
you prepackage them at developer time,
at engineering time,
at build time using a bundler.
There's lots of bundlers out there,
I can't show you how every
single one of them works.
The big ones that most people use
are Webpack, Rollup, and Vite.
There's obviously lots of other ones,
I don't mean to diss your favorite bundler
du jour, but that's how you do it.
You would need to bundle your
JavaScript or your CSS or
whatever into not having these import
statements in the final shipped files.
Now, I've built a very simple bundler
in DevStickers that I'm gonna show
you first the problem, and then we're
gonna run it and see how it gets solved.
So if we were to go over
to our sequence here,
there is a sequence that happens
in our waterfall right here.
So I'm gonna zoom in even farther here and
see.
Okay, so
the call to devstickers.shop finishes, and
it figures out a bunch of
things it needs to load.
It finds CSS2, which is Google Fonts,
it finds my style CSS,
it finds two JavaScript files,
Scripts JS and Promo JS, and
it finds a bunch of images that it
knows it needs to start getting.
Now, style CSS has an import
statement in it for base JS,
and so it waits all the way until
this is done and it parses and
says, crap,
I have another CSS file I need to get.
And then it starts a request for that one.
Base has more import statements for
colors, normalize,
and typography, that it then,
let's move this down.
As you scroll around,
it reorganizes it for
helpfulness, but often you just get lost.
It makes more requests for colors,
typography and numbers, and at this point,
it knows, you also referenced some
fonts a while ago, let me go get those.
Which is, these are requests to
fonts.gstatic.com which is Google's place
where hosts Google Fonts from.
Oop, and
then it reorganized everything again.
>> Todd Gardner: It's once all of
these things are done way out here,
when all the CSS has
finished downloading and
all these fonts have finished downloading,
that FCP finally happens.
And so, by removing these chains,
by collapsing these things together,
we can move up FCP.
So FCP happens sooner.
Here's how we're gonna do that.
If we go into our code,
under public assets CSS,
that's where I have all my CSS.
I didn't use any bundlers,
everything is just straight up.
Here's style CSS, which at the top says,
these are all my styles that I wrote,
but there's some base things
that I like to use a lot.
So I referenced a file called Base, which
defines general styles on the body and
elements and buttons and stuff like that.
But it also references colors, it has
all the colors that I use on my website,
and typography that says,
here's the fonts that I wanna use.
And a general normalized CSS file,
that's a normal thing that you would
see in a lot of CSS structure.
The problem is that I just
shipped this thing as is, and
I made the browser follow
the dependency chain at runtime.
So what instead we're gonna do is,
I use a very small bundler that
you've probably never heard of, but
it's a bundler that's built into Vite and
some other things, called Lightning CSS.
I don't have any
dependencies in JavaScript,
I have very little JavaScript in this
application, but I have a lot of CSS.
And so we're gonna run a bundler
to produce a CSS bundle.
>> Todd Gardner: So
now, I have a new file.
For the purpose of this demo,
I'm trying to keep everything
as simple as I possibly can.
I'm not generating a new version of
the site that's super complicated.
I just smashed a new file right in here
when I built it, called styles.bundlejs,
which all this really does is it
follows the dependency chain and
smashes it all into one file.
So that we don't have to do it at runtime.
So now I'm gonna go into my HTML,
and rather than styles.css,
I'm gonna styles.bundle.css, and
that's how we're gonna roll.
We're just gonna do this super simple.
So, npm start.
If I go back to my page,
let's go to the local version.
So, running on localhost port 3000,
I'm not gonna bother throttling right now,
cuz we're all local.
It doesn't matter.
If I run this thing having used that
bundle, all right, so let's zoom way in.
So now, if we look and
we zoom in on this, now we see,
here's the initial call to the HTML,
the CSS file for CSS bundle JS and
the CSS2, or style bundle JS,
and CSS2 happen at the same time.
And there's no sequence change
that happened from that.
Now, there is still
these fonts that happen,
because these fonts are being
referenced by the CSS2 file.
And it doesn't know that it needs those
fonts until these files come down and
knows that, like, you actually
use these fonts for something.
And so
that's why we're still sitting here,
kinda locked up behind the request for
the fonts to come down.
And that's what we're gonna address next.
But what we did do successfully is
remove the sequence chain from CSS,
that was slowing everything down.